I want to return to our other breaking
news in the last at Israel's Supreme
Court has ruled that there is no legal
basis for excluding Ultra Orthodox men
from the military draft and that those
who are eligible for service must be
drafted well let's go live to our Middle
East correspondent yolan Nell who is in
Jerusalem yolan just explain what the uh
court has ruled this
morning well this is a decision by the
Israeli Supreme Court basically saying
that after a legal Arrangement uh
expired that allowed Ultra Orthodox
Jewish men to avoid conscription in the
military um that really there is no
reason for them now not to be uh
conscripted and this could affect tens
of thousands of men and also um will
affect the the funding the Public
Funding that goes uh to the Jewish
seminaries where they've been studying
uh if uh they continue um to have
students who are avoid military
conscription so this really has wide
ramifications in Israeli Society where
12% of the population now a growing
percentage of the population are Ultra
Orthodox Jews and is something that will
have real political implications too
with ultra Orthodox Jewish parties uh
playing a key role in the governing
Coalition for them this is really uh the
number one issue to avoid uh Ultra
Orthodox Jewish men from serving in the
military to allow them to dedicate their
time uh to religious study instead um
and it is something it's not totally
clear at the moment uh what the
ramifications of all that will be but
certainly it could lead to large numbers
of men uh being called up um and it
comes at a time such a important ruling
which is an issue that's been going on
for for decades really causing divisions
um in Israeli Society um but it's really
come to a head at the time of the war in
Gaza where we've got Israeli military
leaders saying that there is this huge
strain on the military and they have a
shortage of Manpower a shortage of
combat soldiers yes you mention the
ramifications particularly for Benjamin
Netanyahu in the government at the
moment while the war in Gaza is
continuing indeed and there had been
sort of attempts in the past by the
Supreme Court to put this issue back to
Parliament to allow Parliament uh to
rule on exactly uh what should happen
for Ultra or Orthodox men uh whether
they should continue to be allowed to be
exempt U from the military uh but there
has been a failure for that to happen
even with this uh current government you
can see uh within the Coalition that
there are real splits on exactly um what
should be allowed in terms of exemptions
um and that has led really at a
committee stage uh to Parliament just
kind of holding off uh on new
legislation even at a time when as I say
these legal arrangements had expired
there was now no framework the Supreme
Court said uh to allow Ultra Orthodox
men to continue to be Exempted um now in
Israel I mean just as a bit more context
the Army is really seen as being the
People's Army a place where people from
all walks of life go to share a joint
experience um in their late teenage
years um and that is really what is seen
as being the strength uh of the Israeli
Army and the beginning o of the state of
Israel the late 40s it was just a tiny
percentage of ultra Orthodox Jews um and
so allowing them to have exemption after
the population was really um just so
badly affected by the Holocaust was not
seen as being a big issue but as the
ultra Orthodox Jewish population has
grown and grown demographics have
changed in Israel this idea of sharing
the security burden more equally has
become a really hot political topic
yolan now with the latest injury thank
you very much indeed